2026年1月22日 下午 10:27|17分钟 8秒

关键词:
best part、动力、技能、小孩子、家长、学校、more kids、kids today、most kids、little kid、best friends、more people、traditional school、most people、best skier、best response、best answer、hack schooling、school system、big part、computer hacker、particular question、same line

文字记录:
说话人 1 00:02 
好，那我们看一下这个小男孩怎么样去看待成长的，对吧？这也是一个视频，我们看一下，这是一个非常非有启发的视频，我觉得所有的中国家长都一定要看。

说话人 2 00:29 
When you're a kid, you get asked this one particular question a lot. It really gets kind of annoying. What do you wanna be when you grow up? Now adults are hoping for answers like, I want to be an astronaut or I want to be a neurosurgeon. You adults, in your imaginations, kids, they're most likely to answer with pro border surfer or Minecraft player. I asked my little brother and he said, seriously, dude, I'm 10. I have no idea. Probably prosperer. Let's go get some ice cream. See, us kids are going to answer something. We're stoked on what we think is cool, what we have experience with, and that's typically the opposite of what adults want to hear. But if you ask a little kid, sometimes you'll get the best answer. Something so simple, so obvious and really profound.

说话人 2 01:21 
When I grow up, I wanna be happy for me. When I grow up, I wanna continue to be happy like I am now. I'm stoked to be here at Ted X. I mean, I've been watching Ted videos for as long as I can remember, but I never thought I'd make it on stage here so soon. I mean, I became a teenager and like most teenage boys, I spend most of my time wondering how did my room get so messy all on its own? Did I take a shower today? And the most perplexing of all, how do I get girls to like me? No signs to say that.

说话人 2 01:54 
The teenage brain is pretty weird. Our prefrontal cortex is underdeveloped, but we actually have more neurons than adults, which is why we can be so creative and impulsive and Moody and get bummed out. But what bombs me out is to know that a lot of kids today are just wishing to be happy, to be healthy, to be safe, not bullied and be loved for who they are. So it seems to me when adults say, what do you wanna be when you grow up, they just assume that you'll automatically be happy and healthy. But maybe that's not the case. Go to school, go to college, get a job, get married, boom, then you'll be happy, right? You don't seem to make learning how to be happy and healthy a priority in our schools. It's separate from schools. And for some kids, it doesn't exist at all.

说话人 2 02:43 
But what if we didn't make it separate? What if we base education on the study and practice of being happy and healthy? Because that's what it is, a practice, and a simple practice at that.

说话人 2 02:55 
Education is important, but why is being happy and healthy not considered education? I just don't get it. So I've been studying the science of being happy and healthy. It really comes down to practicing these eight things, exercise, diet, nutrition, time and nature. Contribution, service to others, relationships, recreation, relaxation and stress management, and religious or spiritual involvement. Yes, got that one. So these eight things come from Doctor Roger Wash. He calls them therapeutic lifestyle changes, or TLCs for short. He's a scientist that studies how to be happy and healthy. In researching this talk, I got a chance to ask him a few questions like, do you think better schools today are making these eight TLCs a priority? His response was no surprise. It was essentially no. But he did say that many people do try to get this kind of education outside of the traditional arena you're reading and practices such as meditation or yoga. But what I thought was his best response was that much of education is oriented, for better or worse, towards making a living rather than making a life.

说话人 2 04:07 
In 2006, Sir Ken Robinson gave the most popular Ted talk of all time. Schools kill creativity. His message is that creativity is as important as literacy and we should treat it with the same status. A lot of parents watched those videos. Some of those parents, like mine, counted it as one of the reasons they felt confident to pull their kids from traditional school. So try something different. I realize I'm part of this small but growing revolution of kids who are going about their education differently. You know what? It freaks a lot of people out.

说话人 2 04:40 
Even though I was only 9 when my parents pulled me out of the school system, I can still remember my mom being in tears when some of her friends told her she was crazy and it was a stupid idea. Looking back, I'm thankful she didn't cave to peer pressure. And I think she is, too.

说话人 2 04:55 
So out of the 200 million people p that people that have watched Sir Ken Robinson's talk, why aren't there more kids like me out there? Shane Mcconky is my hero. I loved him because he was the world's best skier. But then one day I realized what I really loved about shame. He was a hacker. Not a computer hacker, he hacks king. Here's creativity and inventions made skiing what it is today and why I love to ski.

说话人 2 05:26 
A lot of people think of hackers as geeky computer  who live in their parent's basement and spread computer viruses, but I don't see it that way. Hackers are innovators. Hackers are people who challenge and change to systems to make them work differently, to make them work better. It's just how they think. It's a mindset. I'm growing up in a world that needs more people with the hacker mindset and not just for technology. Everything is up for being hacked, even skiing, even education. So whether it's Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg or Shane Mcconky, having the hacker mindset can change the world.

说话人 2 06:06 
Healthy, happy, creativity in the hacker mindset are all a large part of my education. I call it hack schooling. I don't use any one particular curriculum and I'm not dedicated to anyone particular approach. I hacked my education. I take advantage of opportunities in my community and through a network of my friends and family. I take advantage of opportunities to experience what I'm learning, and I'm not afraid to look for shortcuts or hacks to get a better, faster result. It's like a remix or a mash up of learning. It's flexible, opportunistic, and it never loses sight of making happy, healthy, and creativity a priority. And here's cool part, because it's a mindset, not a system hack. Schooling can be used by anyone, even traditional schools. So what does my school look like? Well, looks like Starbucks a lot of time. But like most kids, I study a lot of math, science, history and writing. I didn't use selector right? Because my teachers made me write about butterflies and rainbows and I wanted to write about skiing. It was a relief when my good friend's mom started the Squaw Valley Kids Institute, where I got to write through my experiences and my interests while connecting with great speakers from around the nation that sparked my love of writing.

说话人 2 07:30 
I realize that once you're motivated to learn something, you can get a lot done in a short amount of time and on your own. Starbucks is pretty great for that. Hacking physics was fun. We Learned all about Newton and Galileo and some, and we experienced some basic visit concepts like kinetic energy through experimenting and making mistakes. My favorite was a giant Newton's cradle that we made out of bowling balls, I think no botchy balls. We experimented with a lot of other things like bowling balls and even giant jawbreakers. Okay. Project Discovery's ropes course is awesome and slightly stressful. When you're 60 feet off the ground, you have to learn how to handle your fears. Communicate clearly and most importantly, trust each other. Community organizations play a big part in my education at High Fives Foundations Basics program, Being Aware and safe and Critical Situations. We spent a day with the Squaw Valley Ski Patrol to learn more about mountain safety. Then the next day, we switch to signs of snow, weather and avalanches. But most importantly, we learn that making bad decisions puts you and your friends at risk.

说话人 2 08:44 
Young Chautauqua brings history to life. You study a famous character in history until you can stand on stage and perform as that character. Answer any question about their lifetime. In this photo, you see Alcapone and Bob Marley getting grilled with questions at the historical Piper's Opera House in Virginia City, the same stage where Harry Houdini got his start.

说话人 2 09:09 
Time and nature is really important to me. It's calm, quiet, and I get to just log out a reality. I spend one day a week outside all day at my foxwalker classes. Our goal is to be able to survive in the wilderness with just a knife. We learn to listen to nature. We learn to censor surroundings. And I've gained a spiritual. Connection to nature that I never knew existed. But the best part is that we get to make spears, bows and arrows, fires with just a bow drill and survival shelters for the snowy nights when we camp out.

说话人 2 09:43 
Hanging out at the moment factory where they handmade skis and design clothes has really inspired me to one day have my own business. The guys at the factory have showed me why I need to be good at math, be creative, and get good at sewing. So I got an internship at Big Truck Brand to get better at design and so on. Between fetching lunch, scrubbing toilets and breaking their vacuum cleaner, I'm getting to contribute to clothing design, customizing hats and selling them. The people who work that are happy, healthy, creative and stoke to be doing what they're doing.

说话人 2 10:16 
This is by far my favorite class. So this is where I'm really happy Saturdays. And it's a good metaphor for my life, my education, my hack schooling. If everyone skied this mountain like most people think of education, everyone would be skiing the same line, probably the safest and most of the powder would go and touch. I look at this and see a thousand possibilities, dropping the cornice, shredding the spine, looking for a training from cliff to cliff.

说话人 2 10:47 
Skiing to me is freedom and so is my education. It's about being creative, doing things differently. It's about community and helping each other. It's about being happy and healthy among my very best friends. So I'm starting to think I know what I might wanna do when I grow up. But if you ask me what do I wanna be when I grow up? I'll always know that I want to be happy. Thank you.

说话人 1 11:25 
好，大家看到这个，大家看这个视频有没有什么感想？是不是离我们比较遥远？这个里面这个小男孩其实他表达了两点，第一点我喜欢的东西和你们家长以为的东西不是一个东西，不是我不喜欢，是你们压根就搞错了，不是我不喜欢学习，对吧？他说我喜欢学习，但是我喜欢用那种我想要的方式学习，而你们却偏偏不给我。

说话人 1 12:01 
他里面用了一个词， traditional school，对吧？传统学校还是什么hacker，对吧？ hacking 的方式去学习一种颠覆，那从他的这个角度来讲的话，他说这样做他就有了学习的动力，对不对？所以我们很多时候去说这个孩子不爱学习，你看人家小孩子自己站在这说话，说你们成年人天天看这个专家说，看那个专家说你们什么时候听过我们小孩子自己来说我们爱不爱学习，难道我们自己不知道吗？我们不是不爱学习，我们是讨厌你给我的那种方式去学习，对吧？所以这就是学习动力缺失的很简单的原因，但是我们从来就没有很认真的去对待小孩，我觉得泰勒这个做的很不错，把一个 11 岁的小孩请到这个讲台上来去讲一讲，对吧？还有你看他说。

说话人 1 12:55 
他说他这个最喜欢干嘛？他说他觉得他长，他没有想，就是说就是他长大想干嘛？快乐快乐，他没有想法。

说话人 1 13:05 
I just want to be happy.

说话人 1 13:06 
还记得我们就是那个就业篇里面讲的就业是为了什么？开心嘛？人活着不就是为了开心嘛，对吧？你看，行，我们现在开始重新回到原点，对不对？就是我们很多时候把事情想太复杂，就业、升学、提分，回过头来其实一切都还是为了开心，偏离了很多的根本。我们老在讨论什么房价、收入、婚姻呐？那个谁离婚了，找了个什么好老公，又能够这个，以后这个又钱多了，对吧？我们在讨论这，其实我们也没错，我们在其实也是在追求我们自己内心的快乐，对吧？即便是看八卦不也是快乐吗？举个例子，比如说我讲课的时候有一些同学这个哎，很犯困，是因为他不爱学习吗？不是我讲的不够好，对吧？如果讲的不够，让他happy。

说话人 1 14:00 
举个例子，比如这个时候我肖老师上台，我们来打一架，打了，然后校长在那哭天喊地的，保证大家都爱看，为什么看八卦会让人happy？对不对？因为你脑子里有那个多巴胺分泌了，这是人性嘛，对不对？所以这就是不爱学习的一个根本原因。没有什么不爱学习的，我们每每个人都爱学习，我们每个人都爱用我喜欢的方式去学习。这是这个小孩子讲的第一个观点，就是我不是不爱学习，我追求快乐，你给我的这种方式让我不快乐，所以我讨厌这种方式，对吧？不要给我扣帽子，说我不爱学习，明明是你的问题，偏偏要批评我。

说话人 1 14:37 
第二点，这个孩子。他在讲这个，在这个视频他讲了一个东西，你看这里面他学会了一些东西，对不对？就在他在那个学校里面他学会了一些东西，他讲他学会了一很多技能，对不对？他里面提到第一个技能是什么？沟通，他讲到他在里面做那些练习，他学会了沟通如何跟团队沟通，对吧？然后还学如何去做的更加的高效，如何去，这个就是在压力下怎么样，对吧？好，他提到沟通这个词，你们知道沟通是什么技能吗？沟通技能在就是现在的全球的发布的，就是企业最看重的这个员工的技能里面排第一名，所有技能里面最重要的技能是沟通技能，沟通能力很重要，但请问你们从小到大在学校里面有没有任何一个课的老师教你们沟通技巧有没有？好，我说一下沟通。沟通这个技巧是什么啊？在标准的沟通技巧课里面，他是怎么样去教你的呢？很简单，给你一堆的资料，让你向其他人准确的来讲。这些资料是什么？看你表达的是否准确，这是沟通中的表达，对吧？

说话人 1 16:15 
然后这个动力是如何塑造出来的？这个我们应该去讲，其实动力很简单，就是首先动力有一个原发性的动力，对吧？原发性他本来是喜欢做一些事情的，当然这里讲了另外一个。另外一个例子，他讲的是属于一个人没有动力，你如何去利用人性去塑造一种动力，让他爱上一个他本来不爱的东西啊？我觉得这个东西怎么说呢？他可能不是一种原生性的动力，但是他也的确是一种教育方式，一种引导方式。有时候我们的确需要，有时候需要有人去做一些他本来没有动力的事情。那这边就讲了一个小故事。这个故事是什么呢？就是有个老人搬到一个新住的房子，结果有一些孩子在附近玩，然后不停的往那上扔石头，然后这个老人想了很多很多方法，现在叫什么？你不要搞。

